---
layout:  post
title:  My Goals
---

A topic that is pretty fun to think about is "What are my goals?  Where do I want to be in 5 years?  10 years?".  I think this is something that I want to talk about because not only does it show compatibility with prospective employers or clients, but it also lets the world see a little bit about me and what drives me.  

---

In the world many say there are 3 things that matter, and in this particular order - God, Family, Everything Else.  I'm not too different from most others in that respect, except **God AND Family** come first.  Why is that important?  Well, what motivates you?  Going to work does not help God in any way, so that means that my Family is the number one driving factor in why I want to wake up every single day.  They are the reason I work so hard, and they are the people that I want to make proud with everything that I do in life.




Goals are something you want to work with in both short term, and long term increments.  Goals should have steps, or checkpoints.  In the grand scheme of things, my ultimate goal is to be successfull and make my family proud.  A good place to start would be at short term goals, so that's what we'll do.



**Short Term Goals** - My very first goal is to finish my portfolio.  This is the first step to getting hired.  Moving forward I want to have a well put together resume easily accessible and updated on both my portfolio and linked in.  Once that is finished I will be able to get applications out to companies that might be looking for a junior front end developer.  Goals for that role would be obviously a competitive wage that would allow me to provide for my wife and family, as well as benefits to take care of us.  As a family guy, some sort of vacation time would be great, although I know your first job in the industry does not have to be a perfect fit.  Once I secure employment with said company my goal is to continue education while working there.  I want to finish my Bloc curriculum to get their full stack certification finished.  That's not the only education though.  I recently purchased over $1500 worth of learning materials for mobile development on many platforms.  I want to continue to learn more languages and build upon my skills to contiuously grow.  These skills combined with work experience will help me get to the next step, mid level goals!




**5 year-ish goals** -   Around my 5 year mark give or take, I would like to significantly increase my wages.  I'm not saying I want to short change myself, or that I expect some insane increase out of nowhere, however over the first 5 years of my developer career I want to get into the six figure a year range.  I know that within 5 years, with hard work and constant learning I will be worth at least 100k a year.  Within that 5 years I'll also be doing freelance work on the side, because as a very good friend and mentor said to me "The difference between your good developers and great developers is this:  Good developers show up to work on time, do their work, and they go home.  Great developers go to work, do their work, go home, and then do more work to hone their skills".  I plan to stick to that mentality.  Never stop learning.  It's what allows us to grow.




**Long Term Goals** -  Within 10 years of being a developer I want to be living a comfortable life.  I want to be able to afford the vacations that my wife and I talk about.  I want to be able to have the house that we dreamed about.  I want to be able to have that security of knowing we have a nice nest built up in case of emergencies, and also want to have money invested for the future.  Within 10 years I want to be a high level Senior Developer or Project Manager.  I would either want to be with a large company that provides top notch benefits, or a smaller company that thrives on what my beliefs are.  One thing I have always enjoyed is helping those who need it most.  This goes for the homeless, poor, sick, etc.  One dream of my wife and I is to own a Dog Rescue where we can provide second chances for animals that got dealt the wrong hand which is completely out of their own control.  




_**Above all I want to be SUCCESSFUL**_