---
layout : post
title: My Experience with Bloc
---
In order for me to talk about my experience with Bloc, I also need to talk about how I got here to Bloc.  So lets start with the road that led me here...

---
In April of 2017 I was needed for work out in Quebec, Canada.  I was set to oversee and handle the switch of Canadian Company SIGMA over to their new owner John Deere.  I was to rewire 7 sites with new low voltage cabling, install new wireless access points, PA horns, speakers, and a full closet build.  I did this all the while in -27 degree weather and the “Record Snowstorm” without question, as it was my job, and the company was taking care of per diem and such.   After my first 2 weeks on this job in Canada, my first paycheck out of the country revealed that I was being shorted money for my per diem for each and every day.  Upon discussing this with the owner, I was told that I was to receive the “Canadian Rate” which doesn’t seem logical considering I work and live in the United States of America.

Fast forward to the end of April, and I’m back stateside and we have a company meeting where we discuss how the rooms we were staying in while in Canada didn’t even have refrigerators or microwaves, so that per diem was all the more important while out of the country.  The owner essentially admits that he should have compensated more, but brushes it off and says he will do it right for future jobs.  At this point, I should trust him.  He of all people can make things happen within his company, and he told me face to face he would handle it.  I finished this up by letting him know that I was still not comfortable with the decision, so that I was putting him on notice that I would be searching for another job.

Now it’s June of 2017 and I am tasked with overseeing a Tractor Supply job in Mid Western Florida.  All of my materials are located at the job site included cables, ladders, lift, hardware, etc.  I am using my personal vehicle to travel approximately 2 hours with traffic to the job site, one way, 5 days a week.  This is fine, because we are compensated for mileage (albeit lower that federal states – .30/mile is what we receive) and we are paid drive time for anything over 35 miles of driving.  This job site is exactly 78 miles one way from my home.  I work the job site for about a month as it is a retrofit, and there are numerous issues including hiring and firing of 2 electrician companies to get power to the building.  The first paycheck is fine, I am compensated for everything as expected and everything is good.  On my fourth week on the job, Monday morning, after turning in my time sheet the previous Friday – I receive an email.  The email reads something to the effect of “Mark, there has been a change in policy and we are no longer compensating you for your drive time or mileage to and from the job site.  The job site is within 35 miles of our home office, and that is going to be the start point when determining all compensation moving forward”.  This is the second time that hundreds of dollars will have been taken from me.

Again I spoke with the Owner, and this time he had a different tone.  After explaining that I depend on that compensation, and that it is 78 miles one way from my house, and I am not required to stop at the office for anything, that it is not a proper practice and changing policies in the middle of a pay period isn’t acceptable.  He began to curse me out and call me names, to which I responded – Then I guess we’re done.  Having put him on notice 2 months prior, it was the straw that broke the camels back.  I was done.

I immediately began to feel the stress settle on me.  I just quit my job, with no replacement.  Realistically I didn’t enjoy what I did for work.  It was hellish most days.  I was dirty, crawling under floors and attics, it was not something that I could see myself doing forever.  After talking to my good friend Kevin who is an extremely talented and self taught Developer it was decided – I needed to further my career and head back to school.

My plan wasn't always Bloc, originally I was slated to attend The Iron Yard in St Petersburg Florida, however 2 weeks before my Cohort would begin, the school announced that it was shutting down after having been recently aquired by another company.  I went into panic mode but said I would no just jump at any and every educational avenue.  I did my research and I found Bloc to be appealing on many levels.  The first being that although we have deadlines or goals to meet each and every week, it's still an "at your pace" learning experience so I can still comfortably adult while attending.  The second point that I was thrilled about was the mentorship program.  I get one on one time with my mentor one to two times a week.  In addition to those meetings mentors message back and forth frequently throughout a work week, and the community in Slack is available for when your specific mentor is not.  Bloc still offered Full Stack Development and it had these other benefits which made me go all in with the program.

That's the background story, now it's time for the "living it" story.  Since starting at Bloc I have faces my fair share of challenges.  Whether its balancing your schedule between work/home/school or it's being stuck on a pesky issue and sitting there working through it for hours or days on end - it's a challenge.  That's okay though, see the best things in life don't come without hard work.  I never anticipated it would be easy to go back to school however I also never thought it would be as challenging as it has been.  

The mentors at Bloc make it okay though.  If your mentor isn't around, there are other mentors that will respond to your questions or problems and reach out to you.  If no mentors are around, there are other students that can work with you through issues.  See one thing that Bloc has really driven home is that even if you think you know everything, you don't.  There is however someone out there who's already been through the type of issue you're going through and can help you overcome that challenge.  

I have fallen behind pace due to family things, holidays, and work - but remaining focused im what I would like to call "half way home".  I have finished up all of the Front End Development curriculum and I have set it up as a goal of mine to polish up skills, get my portfolio ready, and look for front end developer jobs to get into the industry!  Even though this wouldn't be considered the right practice for everyone, it is for me.  I need to get back into the professional workforce instead of a job that is less ideal while schooling.  I can also create the habits of a developer while working in the industry and only grow further for that company while I continue my Bloc education with Back End.  

The coursework for Bloc started relatively slow with HTML and CSS which I had experience with already.  Once through that we transitioned into some other languages but the bulk of the work is done with JavaScript, AngularJS, and JQuery.  We used other tools as well such as Firebase API, Bootstrap, etc. However the main focal point I would have to say would be the languages.  It was really cool to be able to work on BlocJams with both JavaScript and then with AngularJS and see the different ways to solve the same problem!  

Occassionally in the middle of a module we will be tasked with heading out to CodeWars and completing a Kata to challenge our skillset and even expand.  This also helped to teach new ways of thinking and problem solving.  Often times I found myself using methods not taught within Bloc here, but things I went out and educated myself on.  This is a great thing to be able to do as it will be necessary to further learning in the workforce.

Overall I would say that Bloc has been a very positive experience.  I think it has prepared me to enter the Development world with a full head of steam and succeed while doing so.  Bloc has taught me to think outside the box, utilize all resources available, and most importantly to perservere.  When you set out to a task and are strong willed to overcome the challenge, you **will overcome** the challenge.  

